README.md, before:

# Industrial Equipment Catalogue

## Instructions

(**Tip:** Change `.com` to `.dev` to see the VSCode interface on your web browser.
Cannot run terminal commands on the browser though.)

Clone this repository:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/ismaildawoodjee/product-catalogue
cd product-catalogue
```

Set up a Python virtual environment (Windows OS) and activate it:

```sh
python -m venv .venv
.venv/Scripts/activate
```

On Linux and Mac OS:

```sh
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

Install dependencies:

```sh
python -m pip install -U pip
python -m pip install -U wheel setuptools
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

At this point, the simple scraping scripts can be run to get data from the main
equipments page, or the Scrapy spider can be used to extract equipment specifications
data from each equipment's page.

### Scraping Equipment Specifications (with Scrapy, get detailed specifications)

Go inside the `catalogue` folder (to be able to run Scrapy commands):

```sh
cd catalogue
```

Let the `komatsu` spider crawl each equipment's page for the specifications data:

```sh
scrapy crawl komatsu
```

When this is done, check inside the `data` directory to see `equipment_specifications_raw.csv`
has been extracted and 103 images has been downloaded into the `images` directory.
Process the specifications data with:

```sh
python process_data.py
```

Several smaller files for each type of industrial equipment will be produced.

### Simple Scraping Scripts (without Scrapy, only the main page)

Run the Python scripts in this order:

```sh
python main.py
python data_preparation.py
```

Wait until the scripts have finished running, then check inside the `data` directory
to see that raw CSV data has been extracted (with the name `equipment_data_raw.csv`),
and several smaller files for each type of industrial equipment are also produced.

When running the data preparation script, four warnings will say that some strings
cannot be converted to a float, but that's OK, they can be ignored.

Check inside the `images` directory to see that 103 images with their proper names
(`equipment_type` underscore `equipment_id`) are downloaded.

## Using Scrapy

**Setup:** Start a Scrapy project and go inside the folder using the commands:

```sh
scrapy startproject catalogue
cd catalogue
```

**Create:** Generate a Scrapy spider called `komatsu` (and a start url) using the command:

```sh
scrapy genspider komatsu 'www.komatsu.com.au/equipment'
```

This will generate boilerplate code in the `spiders/komatsu.py` script, which can
then be modified accordingly.

**List:** To list all spiders, use the command:

```sh
scrapy list
```

**Crawl:** To start crawling using the spider, run the command `scrapy crawl spider_name`:

```sh
scrapy crawl komatsu
```

**Headers:** To specify headers and parse them as a dictionary, use the `scraper-helper`
module, and specify the `DEFAULT_REQUEST_HEADERS` in the `settings.py` file. Using headers
will make it look like the request is coming from a real browser instead of a bot.

**Shell:** To explore the website within Scrapy Shell, enter the shell with the command
`scrapy shell website_url`:

```sh
scrapy shell 'www.komatsu.com.au/equipment/excavators'
```

Commit message:

Clarify instruction for being in the correct directory

README.md, after:

# Industrial Equipment Catalogue

## Instructions

(**Tip:** Change `.com` to `.dev` to see the VSCode interface on your web browser.
Cannot run terminal commands on the browser though.)

Clone this repository:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/ismaildawoodjee/product-catalogue
cd product-catalogue
```

Set up a Python virtual environment (Windows OS) and activate it:

```sh
python -m venv .venv
.venv/Scripts/activate
```

On Linux and Mac OS:

```sh
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

Install dependencies:

```sh
python -m pip install -U pip
python -m pip install -U wheel setuptools
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

At this point, the simple scraping scripts can be run to get data from the main
equipments page, or the Scrapy spider can be used to extract equipment specifications
data from each equipment's page.

### Scraping Equipment Specifications (with Scrapy, get detailed specifications)

Go inside the first `catalogue` folder, (to be able to run Scrapy commands):

```sh
cd catalogue
```

The current directory should now be `product-catalogue/catalogue`, not
`product-catalogue/catalogue/catalogue`:

```sh
$ ls
catalogue/  process_data.py  scrapy.cfg
```

Let the `komatsu` spider crawl each equipment's page for the specifications data:

```sh
scrapy crawl komatsu
```

When this is done, check inside the `data` directory to see `equipment_specifications_raw.csv`
has been extracted and 103 images has been downloaded into the `images` directory.
Process the specifications data with:

```sh
python process_data.py
```

Several smaller files for each type of industrial equipment will be produced.

### Simple Scraping Scripts (without Scrapy, only the main page)

Run the Python scripts in this order:

```sh
python main.py
python data_preparation.py
```

Wait until the scripts have finished running, then check inside the `data` directory
to see that raw CSV data has been extracted (with the name `equipment_data_raw.csv`),
and several smaller files for each type of industrial equipment are also produced.

When running the data preparation script, four warnings will say that some strings
cannot be converted to a float, but that's OK, they can be ignored.

Check inside the `images` directory to see that 103 images with their proper names
(`equipment_type` underscore `equipment_id`) are downloaded.

## Using Scrapy

**Setup:** Start a Scrapy project and go inside the folder using the commands:

```sh
scrapy startproject catalogue
cd catalogue
```

**Create:** Generate a Scrapy spider called `komatsu` (and a start url) using the command:

```sh
scrapy genspider komatsu 'www.komatsu.com.au/equipment'
```

This will generate boilerplate code in the `spiders/komatsu.py` script, which can
then be modified accordingly.

**List:** To list all spiders, use the command:

```sh
scrapy list
```

**Crawl:** To start crawling using the spider, run the command `scrapy crawl spider_name`:

```sh
scrapy crawl komatsu
```

**Headers:** To specify headers and parse them as a dictionary, use the `scraper-helper`
module, and specify the `DEFAULT_REQUEST_HEADERS` in the `settings.py` file. Using headers
will make it look like the request is coming from a real browser instead of a bot.

**Shell:** To explore the website within Scrapy Shell, enter the shell with the command
`scrapy shell website_url`:

```sh
scrapy shell 'www.komatsu.com.au/equipment/excavators'
```
